Hi, I quite often have devices like this that
use a standard USB connector however, I quite
often have to either measure the power consumed
by this device or measure its performance with
a variety of input voltages or just power it
with a clean lab supply like this, however as you
know it may have noticed a normal USB connector
doesn't exactly fit in one of these so I've
designed this little thing here which is
quite simple as just a vertical USB connector a
PCB and some banana jacks and you just plug it in
like this, it's at the standard one inch spacing
and away you go
Now the PCB files for this will be in the
description so you can order them from a
service like PCBWay I ordered 10 but they gave
me a lot more, you can get the banana jacks I
got them from eBay I'm sure you can get them
from element14 or Digi-Key or whatever as well
as the vertical USB connectors and that is the
part number if you're interested from Digi-Key
now this device is pretty simple it's not many
parts at all however in this video I will show
you how to make it just in case. Now a set
of helping hands is extremely recommended
otherwise you're just going to burn your hands
something else that's also recommended is some
leaded solder because these are some rather
large joints so the lower the melting point
of the solder the better now I would recommend
the soldering the banana jacks before the USB
port because the USB port has plastic in it
and you really don't want to melt that now
before then you make the soldered joint you
really want to make sure that the banana jack
is as flush to the PCB as you can get it
and you want your helping hands to hold it
Now if you have a hot air gun it's a good idea
just to warm up the joint so that
it makes soldering a lot easier.
You don't have to get it as hot as if you were say
reflowing surface-mount stuff you just
have to get it reasonably warm. Now I'll make
sure your soul during tip is nice and clean
and make a good connection between
both the PCB and the banana jack
now this is the type of solder joint you're
looking for, one that has a nice smooth fillet
just like that however you want to get it
nice and straight which this certainly isn't
so you can come in with a wet tissue
just so that you don't burn yourself
Little more solder might help
and just push it to make sure it's nice and level
and that looks pretty good and don't
forget just to put a little bit of
solder on your tip just to save it
so that's what you're looking for
now you want to make sure to get them in
right way round and make the
mistake I did the first time
bring you in a bit closer this time
and just make sure this one's nice and level
now just make sure that they're parallel and
that they're also inline, yeah could be a
bit better but that's probably good enough
they will flex ever so slightly when you put
them into the plugs now for the USB connector
there's a simple case of clicking it in make
sure it's the right way around there I know
they're a good click and that will hold in
pretty well you want to make sure it's nice
and straight and then you can solder it in
I can assure you this is much easier
when you've got a camera in the way
now you don't have to solder the center pins
but it's just a good idea to
hold the part in a bit better
that looks okay and now it's just a case of
letting it cool down because it's pretty hot
right now now once it's all cooled down and you've
washed the leaded solder off your hand it's just
a matter of checking to make sure everything's
done properly that it looks good this is on the
right side these are on the right side and
they look nice and straight so now it's just
a case of plugging it in and seeing if it works
and remember a positive to positive might be a
bit hard to plug it in the first time there
because the the springs won't be compressed
yep looks a treat again the GitHub page
with the project files in Ki-CAD are
in the description as well as some
other stuff and thanks for watching